ABOUT ME

Hi, my name is Tyree Cowell and I'm a learning engineer/educational researcher. While pursuing my bachelors degree at the University of Michigan I first focused on linguistics and how humans acquire language, but I soon pivoted to learning about Artificial Intelligence, and how it could be used to understand the black box of human cognition.
I then spent the next 3 years working in AI research, developing intelligent training solutions for DoD customers at Soar Technology. It ws there that I gained an appreciation for the learning sciences and knew that I wanted to put my talents towards improving education at a larger scale.
To further this goal, I pursued a Masters degree at Carnegie Mellon in educational technology and applied learning sciences. There I learned about best practices in online education, principles of interaction design, and cutting edge research in educational technology.
<br>
I am now ready to apply what I've learned to a research or learning engineer role in the educational technology industry. My goal is always to translate research into practice and improve education with evidence-based interventions.
Navigate around this website to learn more about my background and my work. Feel free to contact me with any questions or opportunities!        </div>


CAPSTONE OVERVIEW

More than 1 in 5 American adults lives with a mental illness, per the National Institute of Health. How might we ensure that all doctors are prepared to apply neuroscience principles to offer effective care to this population?  Further, how might we ensure that doctors can combat the stigma against this population?
The National Neuroscience Curriculum Initiative (NNCI) offers online courses that prepare psychiatrists and other doctors to effectively treat patients with mental illness and combat the stigma against mental illness.  Carnegie Mellon University’s mEducate Learning Engineering Team partnered with NNCI to supercharge the effectiveness of their courses, preparing doctors to improve patient outcomes.
To meet the needs of our stakeholders (doctors, medical students, patients, and instructors), our team delivered instructor and student-facing dashboards that allow for learning to be visualized; a tool to facilitate formative assessment and instruction throughout the course; a new information architecture to enhance learner usability; user guides to enable NNCI instructors to continue using the deliverables without mEducate support, and an evaluation plan to measure the impact of instructional changes.

LEARNING DASHBOARDS

Student learning insights and stigma change data are automatically piped into visualizations embedded in NNCI’s website.  This way, instructors can assess the effectiveness of each component of the course and make informed iteration decisions.  Each student can see their scores and feedback from instructors to keep up-to-date on their performance.

COURSE DESIGN OVERVIEW

As part of a course in the METALS program, each student is required to create a fully developed course design for 10 hours of instruction.
For my project, I developed a course focused on helping Chinese international students prepare for the kinds of reading tasks they will need to complete as part of college-level courses at American institutions.
As an optional summer preparation course, the instruction uses a blended learning appraoch to familiarize students with reading comprehension in English and the culture of reading at American universities.
This project follows the pattern of backwards design by first specifying who the learners are, followed by the goals of the course, then the assessment and instructional design of the course, and finally, evaluation research design.